Support ClickHouse server monitoring & Support service hierarchy (#11966)
apache/skywalking: docs/en/setup/backend/backend-clickhouse-monitoring.md

# ClickHouse monitoring

## ClickHouse server performance from built-in metrics data

SkyWalking leverages ClickHouse built-in metrics data since v20.1.2.4. It leverages OpenTelemetry Collector to transfer
the metrics to
[OpenTelemetry receiver](opentelemetry-receiver.md) and into the [Meter System](./../../concepts-and-designs/meter.md).

### Data flow

> 1. Configure ClickHouse to expose metrics for Prometheus Receiver.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Configure ClickHouse to expose metrics data for scraping from Prometheus.
```

I think there is no receiver. Prometheus is scarping data.

> 2. OpenTelemetry Collector fetches metrics from Prometheus Receiver and pushes metrics to SkyWalking OAP Server via

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. OpenTelemetry Collector fetches metrics from ClickeHouse server through Prometheus endpoint, and pushes metrics to SkyWalking OAP Server via
```

   OpenTelemetry gRPC exporter.
3. The SkyWalking OAP Server parses the expression with [MAL](../../concepts-and-designs/mal.md) to
   filter/calculate/aggregate and store the results.

### Set up

> 1. Set
>    up [built-in prometheus endpoint](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/operations/server-configuration-parameters/settings#server_configuration_parameters-prometheus)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Set up [built-in prometheus endpoint](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/operations/server-configuration-parameters/settings#prometheus)
```

I can't find your `#erver_configuration_parameters-prometheus`, but only `#prometheus`, please recheck.

| CpuUsage         | count      | meter_clickhouse_instance_cpu_usage        | CPU time spent seen by OS per second(according to ClickHouse.system.dashboard.CPU Usage (cores)).                | ClickHouse  |
| MemoryUsage      | percentage | meter_clickhouse_instance_memory_usage     | Total amount of memory (bytes) allocated by the server/ total amount of OS memory.                               | ClickHouse  |
| MemoryAvailable  | percentage | meter_clickhouse_instance_memory_available | Total amount of memory (bytes) available for program / total amount of OS memory.                                | ClickHouse  |
| Uptime           | sec        | meter_clickhouse_instance_uptime           | The server uptime in seconds. It includes the time spent for server initialization before accepting connections. | ClickHouse  |
| Version          | string     | meter_clickhouse_instance_version          | Version of the server in a single integer number in base-1000.                                                   | ClickHouse  |

> | FileOpen         | count      | meter_clickhouse_instance_file_open        | Number of files opened.                                                                                          | ClickHouse  |

Reviewer: Does this mean the number of files opened in the current time bucket? Such as in this minute?

Author: `FileOpen` now means the number of files opened totally, origin value is the counter.
Is it necessary to show in `Line` or show increased count.

Reviewer: Yes, and the metric on the dashboard should be <the number of new opened file>. Same for most counter.
Otherwise, the countet is almost useless.
And is this a counter from one server? Your dashboard should do statistic across all servers of this cluster. You should check and think what this kind of metric means.

Reviewer: If there is no way to add the numbers cross instances, this should be a labeled value and use mqe to merge them or show as a labeled value metric.

Reviewer: About this context ,please read https://github.com/apache/skywalking/pull/11966/#pullrequestreview-1912778007 for more details.
